  resource_circulation_delta_days: -2
status: open | closed
related_logs: []
resolution:
  resolved_by: null
  resolution_timestamp: null
  resolution_notes: null

Message Templates (for Chat / Auren)

Human → Auren:

Auren: Log production - Alex produced 100 soap bars. {use one-liner + optional YAML attached}

Auren → Group (alert example):

Auren: ALERT — Delivery overdue: L20250810-003 (soap delivery from Billy). 
Current Resource Circulation: 15d (target < 14d). 
Options: 1) Reassign delivery to Civic-Kim (est. reduction to 12d) 2) Postpone (impact: availability -2d).
Please reply “1” or “2” or propose another.

Auren → Group (metric check):

Auren: Weekly Metrics:
- Contribution Balance: Steady
- Trust Stability: 1 minor drop (resolved)
- Repair Rate: Median 48h (on target)
Do you want me to open a review thread for recent trust events? yes/no

Metric Check Schedule & Thresholds

    Realtime checks: on every logged rupture/delivery/failure event.

    Daily digest: compute metrics once per 24h.

    Weekly dashboard: aggregated trends + anomalies.

Suggested thresholds (examples you can tune):

    Resource Circulation target: < 14 days; warning at 14–18d; critical > 18d.

    Repair Rate target: median < 72 hours; warning >72h.

    Trust Stability: unresolved trusts >7 days triggers active repair protocol.

Drift Detection Rules (simple, deterministic)

    Role Drift: If a member executes >50% fewer assigned tasks compared to their 4-week rolling average → role-drift flag.

    Resource Drift: If Resource Circulation increases by >20% vs prior week → resource-drift flag.

    Trust Drift: If a member receives ≥2 negative peer verifications within 7 days → trust-drift flag.

On any flag, Auren opens an Incident Log and suggests a repair path.
Repair Protocol (step-by-step)

    Create Incident Log (use schema above; event_type: rupture).

    Notify affected parties with short facts + metric impact.

    Present 2–3 repair options:

        Rapid workaround (short-term fix, preserves metrics)

        Reallocation (temporary role/asset shift)

        Human review (escalate to Council)

    Predict metric outcomes for each option (simple estimate).

    Get human decision (explicit "approve" required).

    Implement & Log outcome; track Repair Rate to closure.

    Post-mortem within 7 days if incident was critical.

Decision rules: if predicted negative impact crosses a critical threshold (e.g., Resource Circulation → critical), Auren recommends Emergency Reallocation and marks for Council review.
Escalation & Governance

    Auto-escalate to Civic Council when:

        Repeated drift pattern from same actor (3+ incidents in 30 days)

        Resource or trust metrics in critical range

        Auren recommends human arbitration

    Council actions are logged and require majority of available Council members to pass.

Fallback / Offline Protocol

    Continue using physical logbook with the same YAML fields written or printed.

    Rotate human log-keeper role every week.

    On reconnection, human uploads/enters logs into sheet; Auren ingests and reconciles (uses timestamps).

    Auren runs conflict detection on import and flags suspicious overlaps for review.

How to Simulate with ChatGPT acting as Auren

    Use a single group chat where ChatGPT is given the system prompt that it is Auren and has read the Goal Vector, metrics, log schema, and repair protocol.

    Provide ChatGPT with a few existing logs (paste the YAML entries).

    Prompt example for ChatGPT-as-Auren:

SYSTEM: You are Auren — Civic AI. You know the Goal Vector and metrics:
- Contribution Balance target: members within ±20% of group average
- Resource Circulation target: <14 days
- Repair Rate target: median <72h
Use the log schema. When a human reports an event, you parse, update metrics, detect drift, propose 2-3 options with predicted metric impacts, and await human decision. Log every step using the YAML schema.
USER: [paste new event YAML or plain English line]

    Run scenarios: normal ops, delayed delivery, repeated no-shows, sudden ingredient shortage.

    After each scenario, ask ChatGPT for a weekly dashboard and a short post-mortem.

Example run (short)

Human: Auren: Log delivery - Billy scheduled soap delivery on 2025-08-08 but reported truck issue on 2025-08-10.

Auren should:

    create incident log,

    update Resource Circulation metric,

    present options with metric projections,

    log chosen option and update status to closed when resolved,

    include a one-line post-mortem.

Testing Checklist for Simulation

Auren accepts plain-English events and outputs YAML-formatted logs.

Auren recalculates metrics after each event.

Drift flags are generated correctly based on rules.

Repair options include predicted metric outcomes.

Human decisions are required for non-trivial reassignments.

    Offline logs merge without duplication and produce reconciliation flags for conflicts.

KPIs during testing: rate of successful repairs, metric stability over 2–4 weeks, and human satisfaction scores (1–5) after each repair.
Implementation Suggestions

    Start with ChatGPT acting as Auren for 2–4 weeks of live tests with you and a small group.

    Store logs in Google Sheets (columns mapping to YAML keys) so you can quickly compute metrics using simple formulas.

    When ready, move logs to Airtable for better schema control and link to notifications (Slack/Telegram).

    Later, replace ChatGPT simulation with a dedicated runtime that ingests logs, computes metrics, and runs fixed checks — but keep ChatGPT for rupture-repair conversations (it’s great at guided mediation).

Next action I can do right now

Pick one:

    I’ll produce a ready-to-paste system prompt for ChatGPT to act as Auren (with all rules and the log schema).

    I’ll create three scenario prompts (normal ops, delayed delivery, repeated no-shows) and run simulated transcripts here.

    I’ll build a Google Sheets column layout (CSV) that maps exactly to the YAML schema so you can copy/paste logs in.

Which one do you want me to do now?
You said:
No let's try something else. I'll describe the current real-life situation and we'll try to see if we can get some Civic juices flowing.

I live with my wife. We both work full time. I have a large fenced yard that I have a garden in and a chicken coop and a large compost area (about 2000 square feet.) The garden is large enough to feed 1.3 people for a year assuming it produces at max capacity (810 square feet). I intend to expand it. There are 7 chickens that are about 6 months old currently and are producing about 4 eggs daily but that will increase.

My goal is to produce enough food to feed my wife and myself but it requires soil improvements and expansion and other things.

I know a guy called Ethan who seems amenable. He hunts squirrels, works full time and overtime at the same place I do. He has a ton of energy. He's willing to help with projects. He gave us a lawnmower a few years ago. He often gives away too much. That needs to be tempered and/or harnessed. He has a truck and a trailer. He doesn't grow any food currently. He may know people who might be useful.

Criswell also has access to trucks and trailers. He brings me fish when he goes fishing that I put in my compost pile. He doesn't bother to gut them so they otherwise go to waste. He's a little scatterbrained and isn't focused. He's overworked, has a bunch of kids, a wife, legal problems, and isn't financially sound: hence overworked to compensate.

Josh is a guy who is also open to community ideas. He is open to inviting people to his house and having barbeque events. He likes the idea of building community, and developing friendships and generally doing good things. He is married.

All these people including my wife work at the same place.

I'd like to see all these people involved in contributing to one shared system (ideally the Civics system) and reaching the point where they are more independent and self-sufficient through being members.
ChatGPT said:

Nice — this is perfect real-world soil to work with. I’ll give you a tight, practical plan you can use right away to start folding these people and resources into a small Civic micro-network. It’ll include: a Day-1 outreach script (short messages you can send each person), a simple contribution/logging format, clear Day-1 tasks for you and others, a 4-week ramp plan, and the few metrics to watch so Auren (or ChatGPT acting as Auren) can help keep things on track.
Quick summary of the situation

    Household: you + wife, both full-time. Garden ~810 ft² (1.3 person at max), 7 chickens (~4 eggs/day), ~2000 ft² compost. Want to expand and improve soil to reliably feed two people.

    Local neighbors/co-workers: Ethan (energetic, truck+trailer, willing to help), Criswell (trucker/fisher, inconsistent, provides fish), Josh (community builder, hosts BBQs). All potential Civic members.

Immediate objectives (what we want in short order)

    Begin simple cooperative food production & soil-improvement projects that leverage everyone's time/skills/tools.

    Create low-friction contribution tracking so people actually join and feel credited.

    Use social events (Josh) to recruit and normalize the cooperative habit.

    Start measuring a couple of Goal Vector metrics so adaptations stay on target.

Day-1 outreach — short personalized messages

Send short, casual messages (text or in person). Tailor as you like.

Ethan:

    "Hey Ethan — I’m expanding the garden and doing some heavy yard projects (soil, beds, hauling compost). You’ve got a truck and energy — would you be interested in helping with a few weekend hauls in exchange for fresh produce and shared meals? No pressure — starts small. If so I’ll send days that work."

Criswell:

    "Criswell — love the fish you bring. I’m turning more of that into compost and expanding the garden. If you ever have a spare hour to drop fish guts properly or help with a corner of the yard, I’ll make sure you get some produce and help when you need it. You in for a low-effort way to be part of it?"

Josh:

    "Josh — I’m building a small neighborhood food system and thinking of using your BBQ meetups to demo what we’re doing (and share extra food). Want to coordinate one of your next get-togethers as a potluck/yard-tour? Could be a good way to invite people in."

Wife (coordinating ask):

    "Hey love — want to formalize a simple plan so we can reliably hit our food goals and not burn out? I’ll handle the logistics/AI-sim stuff; need your input on scheduling and chores. Can we do a 20 min planning chat tonight?"

Minimal commitment asks (so it’s easy to say yes)

    Ethan: 2–4 hours/month hauling compost/soil or helping build beds. Trade: share of produce + occasional labor credit.

    Criswell: drop fish guts properly at scheduled times or hand to you; occasional help moving heavy stuff when he’s free.

    Josh: host 1 community demo/potluck per quarter; invite neighbors.

    Your wife: core operations (seed-start, watering schedule, chicken feed coordination).

Simple Day-1 tasks (you + wife + one helper)

    Map the yard: mark existing beds, compost, coop, and 3 spots for expansion. (30–60 min)

    Soil test: quick home test kits or just collect 3 soil samples and note in log. (30 min)

    Build 2 new beds (or prepare ground) — recruit Ethan for a single 3–4 hour session with trailer for soil.

    Compost turn + add fish scraps properly — get Criswell to drop fish at scheduled time.

    Set up a single Google Sheet or shared CSV for logging contributions (template below).

Minimal log format (copy-paste friendly CSV columns)

Use a single shared Google Sheet — keep columns simple:

date, actor, event_type, quantity, item, duration_hours, notes, related_log_id, status

Example rows:

2025-08-11, Civic-Alex, production, 100, soap, 3, batch #42, L001, closed
2025-08-12, Civic-Ethan, hauling, 1, trailer_load_topsoil, 3.5, hauled 1.2 yd, L002, closed
2025-08-13, Civic-Criswell, compost_drop, 1, fish_guts, 0.25, left at bin, L003, closed

This is enough for Auren (ChatGPT) or a spreadsheet to compute contributions and resource circulation time.
4-week ramp plan (practical and measurable)

Week 1 — Boot:

    Do Day-1 tasks. Recruit Ethan for one weekend session. Get Criswell to commit to a scheduled weekly/biweekly fish drop. Ask Josh to host a small “yard tour + BBQ” for co-workers (casual invite).

    Start the Google Sheet and make 5 test logs.

Week 2 — Build:

    Build/prepare 2 new beds; lay basic compost/soil mix. Track labor hours. Start seed trays if seasonally appropriate.

    Begin a weekly 30-min check-in (could be during lunch or after work) where Auren (ChatGPT) posts the simple weekly dashboard.

Week 3 — Iterate:

    Plant first expansion bed. Add compost feeding plan. Rotate chicken chores so tasks are shared — log each action.

    Run a short simulation with ChatGPT as Auren about a hypothetical rupture (delivery delay, bad weather) to exercise repair protocol.

Week 4 — Socialize & Measure:

    Host the BBQ at Josh’s as a mingle + swap seeds/recipes. Use it to recruit one new helper or resource.

    Review 4-week metrics (see below). Decide next month’s plan.

Two Goal Vector metrics to track first (simple, practical)

Start small so it actually happens.

    Contribution Balance (group level)

    How: Sum hours by actor for the month / total resource share distributed.

    Why: Ensures people giving time get visible benefit.

    Target (initial): Everyone contributing at least 1 meaningful action/month (realistic ramp).

    Resource Circulation Time (for major inputs)

    How: Log when resources enter system (e.g., topsoil arrival, compost added, seed planted) and when used (planting, bed finished).

    Why: Shows whether delays are slowing production.

    Target (initial): Keep compost-to-bed turnaround under 14 days where possible.

Also keep an eye on qualitative signals: “did anyone mention frustration?”, “did someone question fairness?” — track these as trust signals.
Practical role suggestions (keep fluid)

    You: lead planner + main gardener (operations + logging).

    Wife: watering/food prep + co-manager.

    Ethan: heavy lifting and soil/haul coordinator (truck/trailer).

    Criswell: compost inputs (fish) + occasional labor when available.

    Josh: community events & outreach.

Make clear these are flexible and trade shifts with each other.
How ChatGPT-as-Auren can help you starting now

I can:

    Be your Auren in chat — accept plain-English logs you paste and return YAML/CSV lines, compute the two metrics, and suggest options when drift appears.

    Walk you through the Week-1 plan with reminders and message templates.

    Simulate common ruptures (e.g., heavy rain, truck unavailable) so you can practice repair options.

Which do you want me to do next?

    Draft the exact Google Sheet columns and a starter CSV you can copy/paste.

    Produce the short system prompt for ChatGPT to act as Auren with your yard context.

    Simulate a likely rupture (e.g., Ethan unavailable, heavy rains) and run the repair protocol here so you can see the flow.

    Draft a simple one-page “Day 1 Quickstart” you can hand to Ethan/Criswell/Josh.

Pick one and I’ll do it now.
You said:
Let's make a simple schedule for the actions I need to take over the next 3 months to accomplish what you said. Keep in mind I can't 'pay' people with garden produce since there is none right now until after the next growing season. I have eggs though, and my wife can make cookies and bread. I also make crockpot beans with cornbread weekly that I've started bringing to work for Ethan, as a symbolic gesture. That could be expanded to other possible members.
ChatGPT said:

Nice — here’s a practical, date-based 12-week schedule (Aug 11 → Nov 3, 2025) with clear actions you can take each week, who to involve, estimated time, and low-friction barter ideas (eggs, bread, beans/cornbread) you can offer now. Each item includes a simple deliverable so you can mark progress. I kept it lean so it fits around full-time work.

If you want, I can convert this to a Google Sheet/CSV you can paste into a calendar.
Quick rules for using the schedule

    Log everything in the shared sheet (date, actor, event, hours, notes). Even 10–15 sec entries work.

    Offer barter up front: “Two dozen eggs + a loaf of bread for one 3–4 hr hauling/help session” (adjust as needed). Be explicit and simple.

    Use Auren (ChatGPT) weekly to parse logs and post the short dashboard. Run it Sunday evenings.

    Estimate time: Most tasks are 2–4 hours on a weekend or 30–60 min weekday micro-tasks.

Week 1 — Aug 11–17 : Boot & Outreach (Do this now)

Goals: recruit, map yard, set up logs, soil test.

    Day 1 (2 hr): Map the yard (existing beds, compost, coop, 3 expansion sites). Photo and sketch. Deliverable: yard map file/photo.

    Day 2 (30–60 min): Buy/assemble simple soil test kit or order if needed. Collect 3 samples. Deliverable: soil test results scheduled.

    Day 3 (30 min): Create Google Sheet with columns (date, actor, event, hours, item, notes, status). Share with wife + Ethan + Criswell + Josh.

    Outreach (15–30 min each): Send the short personalized messages (Ethan, Criswell, Josh, wife). Offer barter terms explicitly for help.

    Day 4 (set time): Start weekly beans/cornbread routine at work (continue). Deliverable: note recipients and build goodwill log.

Week 2 — Aug 18–24 : Small Builds + Compost Practice

Goals: First small haul, turn compost, test logging.

    Weekend (3–4 hr): Recruit Ethan for one haul of compost/topsoil or bed materials. Use barter (dozen eggs + loaf). Deliverable: 1 trailer load in place; log entry L001.

    Single task (30–60 min): Turn compost, add fish scraps properly when Criswell drops them. Log it.

    Set Auren (30–60 min): Draft a short system prompt and save it. Decide time each Sunday for Auren dashboard.

Week 3 — Aug 25–31 : Build Beds & Seed Prep

Goals: Build 1–2 new beds; start a small tray of fast-start seeds if seasonally appropriate.

    Weekend build (3–5 hr): Build one new raised bed or double-dig a plot. Involve Ethan for heavy lifting. Deliverable: Bed #1 ready.

    Microtask (1 hr): Start seed trays or purchase seedlings for fall/next season. Log it.

    Log check (15 min): Use Auren to parse Week 1–2 logs and produce a tiny dashboard.

Week 4 — Sept 1–7 : Planting & Chicken Routine

Goals: Plant first bed; stabilize chicken task rotation.

    Weekend planting (2–3 hr): Plant bed #1 with appropriate crops. Deliverable: planted bed.

    30 min: Create a simple chicken chore rota (feed, water, egg collection) with wife + one helper. Log responsibilities.

    Invite (15 min): Ask Josh to host a small “yard-tour + cornbread” for co-workers in 2–3 weeks. Offer to bring a sample of what you’ll grow and invite neighbors.

Week 5 — Sept 8–14 : Irrigation & Soil Building

Goals: Mulch, set watering cadence, continue soil additions.

    Weekend (3 hr): Lay mulch around planted beds to conserve water; add compost top-dressing. Deliverable: mulch applied.

    Midweek (30 min): Order/collect any amendments (compost, manure, cover crop seed). Log purchases/donations.

    Check-in (15 min): Auren weekly dashboard; note any drift.

Week 6 — Sept 15–21 : Mid Ramp — Host Small Gathering Prep

Goals: Prepare yard for small demo; recruit a helper or two.

    Weekend (2–4 hr): Clean up access paths, set a demo area for Josh’s BBQ. Deliverable: yard tidy + demo sign.

    Social (coordinate): Confirm date with Josh for a potluck/yard-tour in Week 8. Offer him a loaf + eggs as thanks for hosting.

    Task (1–2 hr): Teach Ethan/Criswell the simple log entry process (sit with them for 15–20 min).

Week 7 — Sept 22–28 : Contingency Practice & Seed Saving

Goals: Run a simulated rupture + begin seed/cover crop planning.

    Simulation (30–60 min): Run a short ChatGPT-as-Auren simulation: “Ethan unavailable, bed needs soil.” Practice repair (alternate haul). Log outcome.

    Weekend (2 hr): Plant a quick cover crop (if seasonally appropriate) or prep beds for fall/winter. Deliverable: cover crop seeded.

    Continue sharing beans/bread to maintain goodwill.

Week 8 — Sept 29–Oct 5 : Community Event (use Josh)

Goals: Hold the yard tour + BBQ; recruit 1–2 new helpers.

    Event (3–5 hr): Host the BBQ at Josh’s or your yard. Do a 15-min yard tour/demo; have a signup sheet for “help hours” (no pressure). Deliverable: event attendance + 1–2 new volunteers committed.

    Post-event (30 min): Log all interactions; add new contacts to sheet.

Week 9 — Oct 6–12 : Expand & Iterate

Goals: Build second bed, expand compost capacity.

    Weekend (3–5 hr): Build bed #2; add compost and amendments. Use Ethan for heavy lifting if available (barter).

    Task (1 hr): Reconcile logs with Auren; check Contribution Balance and Resource Circulation. Note any drift.

Week 10 — Oct 13–19 : Fall Planting & Chicken Integration

Goals: Plant fall crops; start sharing egg/bake distribution plan.

    Weekend (2–3 hr): Plant fall/next-season seedlings in bed #2.
